The Five Qualities of Great Visualizations

All content comes from book: "The Truthful Art"
(http://proquest.safaribooksonline.com.libproxy.scu.edu/book/databases-and-reporting-tools/9780133440492/part-i-foundations/ch02_html#X2ludGVybmFsX0h0bWxWaWV3P3htbGlkPTk3ODAxMzM0NDA0OTIlMkZjaDAybGV2MnNlYzFfaHRtbCZxdWVyeT0=)

1. Truthful: getting our information as right as possible.
   Two different strategies to be truthful:
   • Avoid self-deception. We humans evolved to see patterns in meaningless noise. We jump to conclusions. 
     We see causality where there’s only correlation. Truthful graphics are created by people who do their 
     best to prevail over their intellectual shortcomings and cognitive and ideological biases by applying 
     certain critical thinking techniques.
   • Be honest with your audience. Show them your best understanding of what the reality is. Or, to use the 
     words of Carl Bernstein, one of the reporters who broke the Watergate story in the 1970s, we should 
     strive to pursue and deliver “the best obtainable version of the truth.”
   
   Example: if one plot has scale from certain number not zero, this plot may be misleading and deceptive.
   
2. Functional: 
   Set the purpose of the gragh and then decide how to shape the information to achieve this goal.

3. Beautiful:
   What matters isn’t if the objects of our creation are beautiful or not per se, but if they are experienced 
   as beautiful by as many people as possible.
   
4. Insightful:
   Good visualizations clear the path to making valuable discoveries that would be inaccessible if the 
   information were presented in a different way. Visualizations that offer just obvious and trivial messages 
   are worthless. 
   
5. Enlightening:
   Great visualizations change people’s minds for the better.An enlightening graphic is a consequence of paying 
   attention to the previous four qualities. A graphic that is truthful, functional, beautiful, and insightful 
   has the potential of being enlightening as well. But there’s something else to consider at this point: the 
   topic of the visualization. Choosing topics ethically and wisely—casting light over relevant issues—matters 
   a lot.
   Try to find topics do matter more than others indeed because they are more critical to the well-being of more 
   people.
   



